The President: Thank you very much.
Wow, what a nice visit this was.
Inspirational visit,
I have to tell you.
I'm a fan.
I'm a big fan.
I want to thank Howard
Kettell, Francis Spradley
of the Andrew Jackson
Foundation, and all of the
foundation's incredible
employees and supporters
for preserving this great
landmark, which is what it
is -- it's a landmark of
our national heritage.
And a special thank you to
Governor Bill Haslam and
his incredible wife, who
-- we just rode over
together -- and Senators
Lamar Alexander and Bob
Corker, two great friends
of mine, been a
big, big help.
Both incredible guys.
In my address to Congress,
I looked forward nine
years, to the 250th
anniversary of
American Independence.
Today, I call attention to
another anniversary: the
250th birthday of the very
great Andrew Jackson.
(Applause.)
And he loved Tennessee, and so do I --
to tell you that.
(Applause.)
On this day
in 1767, Andrew Jackson
was born on the backwoods
soil of the Carolinas.
From poverty and
obscurity, Jackson rose to
glory and greatness --
first as a military
leader, and then as the
seventh President of the
United States.
He did it with courage,
with grit, and with
patriotic heart.
And by the way, he was one
of our great Presidents.
(Applause.)
Jackson was
the son of the frontier.
His father died
before he was born.
His brother died fighting
the British in the
American Revolution.
And his mother caught
a fatal illness while
tending to the
wounded troops.
At the age of 14, Andrew
Jackson was an orphan, and
look what he
was able to do.
Look what he was
able to build.
It was during the Revolution that Jackson
first confronted and defied an arrogant elite.
Does that sound familiar to you?
(Laughter.)
I wonder why
they keep talking about
Trump and Jackson,
Jackson and Trump.
Oh, I know the
feeling, Andrew.
(Laughter.)
Captured by the Redcoats and ordered
to shine the boots of a
British officer, Jackson
simply refused.
The officer took his saber
and slashed at Jackson,
leaving gashes in his head
and hand that remained
permanent scars for
the rest of his life.
These were the first and
far from the last blows
that Andrew Jackson took
for his country that he
loved so much.
From that day on, Andrew
Jackson rejected authority
that looked down on
the common people.
First as a boy, when
he bravely served the
Revolutionary cause.
Next, as the heroic victor
at New Orleans where his
ragtag -- and it was
ragtag -- militia, but
they were tough.
And they drove the British
imperial forces from
America in a triumphant
end to the War of 1812.
He was a real
general, that one.
And, finally, as President
-- when he reclaimed the
people's government from
an emerging aristocracy.
Jackson's victory shook
the establishment
like an earthquake.
Henry Clay, Secretary of
State for the defeated
President John Quincy
Adams, called Jackson's
victory "mortifying
and sickening".
Oh, boy, does this
sound familiar.
(Laughter.)
Have we heard this?
This is terrible.
He said there had been "no
greater calamity" in the
nation's history.
The political class in
Washington had good reason
to fear Jackson's
great triumph.
"The rich and powerful,"
Jackson said, "too often
bend the acts of
government to their
selfish purposes."
Jackson warned they had
turned government into an
"engine for the support of
the few at the
expense of the many."
Andrew Jackson was the
People's President, and
his election came at a
time when the vote was
finally being extended
to those who did
not own property.
To clean out the
bureaucracy, Jackson
removed 10 percent of
the federal workforce.
He launched a campaign
to sweep out
government corruption.
Totally.
He didn't want
government corruption.
He expanded benefits
for veterans.
He battled the centralized
financial power that
brought influence at
our citizens' expense.
He imposed tariffs on
foreign countries to
protect American workers.
That sounds very familiar.
Wait till you see what's
going to be happening
pretty soon, folks.
(Laughter.)
It's time.
Andrew Jackson was called
many names, accused of
many things, and by
fighting for change,
earned many, many enemies.
Today the portrait of this
orphan son who rose to the
presidency hangs proudly
in the Oval Office,
opposite the portrait of
another great American,
Thomas Jefferson.
I brought the Andrew
Jackson portrait there.
(Applause.)
Right behind me, right -- boom, over my
left shoulder.
Now I'm honored to
sit between those two
portraits and to use this
high office to serve,
defend, and protect the
citizens of the
United States.
It is my great honor.
I will tell you that.
From that desk I can
see out the wonderful,
beautiful, large great
window to an even greater
magnolia tree, standing
strong and tall across the
White House lawn.
That tree was planted
there many years ago, when
it was just a sprout
carried from
these very grounds.
Came right from here.
(Applause.)
Beautiful tree.
That spout was nourished,
it took root, and on this,
his 250th birthday, Andrew
Jackson's magnolia is a
sight to behold.
I looked at it
actually this morning.
Really beautiful.
(Applause.)
But the growth of that beautiful
tree is nothing compared
to growth of our
beautiful nation.
That growth has been made
possible because more and
more of our people have
been given their dignity
as equals under law and
equals in the eyes of God.
Andrew Jackson as a
military hero and genius
and a beloved President.
But he was also a flawed
and imperfect man, a
product of his time.
It is the duty of each
generation to carry on the
fight for justice.
My administration will
work night and day to
ensure that the sacred
rights which God has
bestowed on His children
are protected for each and
every one of you, for
each and every American.
(Applause.)
We must all remember Jackson's words:
that in "the planter, the
farmer, the mechanic, and
the laborer," we will find
muscle and bone
of our country.
So true.
Now, we must work in our
time to expand -- and we
have to do that because
we have no choice.
We're going to make
America great again, folks.
America great again --
(applause)
-- to expand
the blessings of America
to every citizen
in our land.
And when we do,
watch us grow.
Watch what's happening.
You see it
happening already.
You see it with
our great military.
our great markets.
You see it with our
incredible
business people.
You see it with the level
of enthusiasm that they
haven't seen
in many years.
People are proud
again of our country.
And you're going to get
prouder and prouder and
prouder, I can
promise you that.
(Applause.)
And watch us grow.
We will truly be one
nation, with deep roots, a
strong core, and a very
new springtime of American
greatness yet to come.
Andrew Jackson, we thank
you for your service.
We honor you
for your memory.
We build on your legacy.
And we thank God for the
United States of America.
Thank you very
much, everybody.
(Applause.)